# Page Structuring Tags

The tags that helps in proper structuring of web page are :






## The `<header>` Tags

In general, header refers to the section located at the very top of the webpage.

The `<header>` tags is introduced in HTML5.

In HTML4, the tag used instead of `<header>` tags is :

```html
<div id="header">
  <h1>The  Title of the blog</h1>
  <h2> The sub-title of the blog</h1>
</div>
```
In HTML5, we can simply write the headers of the webpage, as follows :

```html
<header>
  <h1>The  Title of the blog</h1>
  <h2> The sub-title of the blog</h1>
</header>
```
## The `<footer>` Tags

The footer element is also widely used. Generally we refer to a section located at the very bottom of the web page as the footer.

The `<footer>` tags is also introduced in HTML5.

In HTML4, the tag used instead of `<footer>` tags is :

```html
<div id="footer">
  <h4>Terms of Services</h4>
  <p>By accessing or, using the service you agree to be bound by these terms</p>
</div>
```
In HTML5, we can simply write the footers of the webpage, as follows :

```html
<footer>
  <h4>Terms of Services</h4>
  <p>By accessing or, using the service you agree to be bound by these terms</p>
</footer>
```
he following information is usually provided between `<footer>` tags:
- Contact Information
- Privacy Policy
- Social Media Icons
- Terms of Service
- Copyright Information
- Sitemap and Related Documents

## The `<nav>` Tags

Within the `<nav>` tags, usually we add links that navigates the user to other web pages or, to a specific section of the current web page.

The following example shows the major navigation section of the web page.

```HTML
<nav>
   <ul>
      <li><a href="#">Home</a></li>
      <li><a href="#">Services</a></li>
      <li><a href="#">About us</a></li>
   </ul>
</nav>
```

## The `<article>` Tag

**Article** is a self-contained, independent piece of content that can be used and distributed separately from the rest of the page or site.

An article may be a forum post, a magazine or newspaper article, a blog entry, a comment, an interactive widget or gadget, or any other independent piece of content.

The `<article>` tag replaced the `<div>` tags that was widely used in HTML4, along with an `id` or `class`.

```html
<article>
   <h1>The article title</h1>
   <p>Contents of the article element </p>
</article>
```
When an `<article>` tag is nested, the inner tag represents an article related to the outer element.

*For Example :* Blog post comments can be the `<article>` tags nested within the `<article>` tag representing the blog post.

## The `<section>` Tag

The `<section>` tag is a logical container of the page or, article.

Sections can be used to divide up content within an article.

*For Example :* A homepage could have a section for introducing the company, another section for news items, and still another section for contact information.

```html
<article>
   <h1>Welcome</h1>
   <section>
      <h1>Heading</h1>
      <p>content or image</p>
   </section>
</article>
```

Each `<section>` tag should be identified, typically by including a heading (`<h1>`-`<h6>`tags) as a child of the `<section>` element.

>***Notes :*** If it makes sense to separately show the content of a `<section>` tag, then, we can use an `<article>` tag instead.


## The `<aside>` Tag
